# kickstarter-analysis

The purpose of this analysis was to not only find which of the theater campaigns were either successful, failed, or canceled based on its launch date, but to also find the percentage of which play campaigns were either a success, failed, or cancelled based off funding goal amounts. The background for this analysis was provided by....

In order to find which of the theater campaigns were successful, failed, or canceled based on its launch date, we had to first create a years column using the "=Year" function. In order for this functon to work, you have to use the "Date created Conversion" column which as created by converting the Unix timestamp located in the "launched_at" column. Once that is finished you then have to create a line chart based off the pivot tale in order to determine theater campaigns outcomes based on its launch date. In order to successfully analyze this dataset, we had to filter the pivot table by Parent Category and Years, set Outcomes to columns, set Date Created Conversions to rows, and place the values to list in each cell as the Count of (each possible) Outcome.

In order to find the percentage of which play campaigns were successful, failed, or canceled based on the funding goal amount, we had to first create a new worksheet to reflect this statistical analysis. Within "Outcomes based on Goals", we found the Number of Successful/Failed/Cancelled outcomes for each grouped goal amount using COUNTIF(). Next, we summed up each of these groupings for the Total Projects by using SUM(). Then, we found each percentage by dividing each number of outcomes by the total projects seen within each respective gorup. Finally, we created a line chart for each outcome based on goal groups. In order to successfully analyze this dataset, we had to make sure we had an understanding of how gather data for each outcome per goal group. 

One challenege that I had was finding the Number of Successful/Failed/Cancelled outcomes for each grouped goal amount using COUNTIF(). My biggest issue was trying to input the correct arguments for the criteria and criteria range. In order to rectify this issue, I watched the video hint to get a good example as well as researched the function more in depth to get a better understanding of what information is purposed for the criteria and criteria range.

Two conclusions I found from deliverable one were that the month of May was the most successful and there werent any canceled theater campaigns in October. Based off of the Outcomes based on Goals dataset I conclude that 45,000 to 49,999 had the highest percentge of failed play campaigns. A Limitation of this dataset is that the pledged and goal columns are not consistent for one currency. For example, there are multiple types of currency present in the dataset without a universal currency conversion. Other table and grapghs we are able to create are pie and bar charts to illustrate goal outcomes that were reached based on country.
